Today we have Hib Majid with us and he will tell us uh about observability and how to make it
painless. Painless. So yeah, please welcome Hib. Hello everyone. Welcome to my talk observability
made painless with go ut and the looks good to me stack. Don't worry if you don't know what most of
those words mean. We will cover it and hopefully by the end of the talk a lot of this will make a
lot more sense. So a little bit about myself. Uh as you heard my name is Steve Marget. I'm a backend
engineer at a uh fintech startup called Nala. Uh there's a link to my blog which also has these
slides. I'll have a QR code at the end. So don't worry about uh uh uh going through the slides. You
can go through them in your own time at the end. A few fun facts about myself. I really like cats.
Uh I'm an avid uh village crytor. Uh my brother told me to put emphasis on the word village when I
was uh demoing this talk with him. So make that what you will. So who's this talk aimed at? Well, of
course it's aimed at those people who have perhaps he heard about observability but want to know a
bit more. We will cover that. Uh maybe you have a application and you want you want to improve the
observability or see how you can make it more observable. Hopefully you'll be able to pick up a few
things. Uh it's also aimed at those people who know observability or have some sort of observability
stack setup but you want to know more about open telemetry or ut and how does that fit into things?
What is that? Right? And that was this was definitely me like 18 months ago. I vaguely knew what
open telemetry was and hopefully by the end of this talk you will be more familiar with it. Uh we
are not going to be covering much uh promql or prometheus query language uh or prometheus style
metrics. We're going to go over a little bit but that could be a talk on its own. Uh don't worry if
you don't know what Promql is. Uh we will go over that a little bit. Um if you're already an expert
in OTL, you might not get a lot out of this talk. Uh but of course feel free to stay. So let's go
over a few definitions. What's observability? It's sort of in the name. It's basically in terms of
uh we're going to be talking a lot in terms of HP services. I feel like a lot of people have written
HP services, but it's basically what's going on with our application and particularly what's going
wrong with our application. If customers, for example, can't log in, is it customer support that's
getting in touch with us and letting us know or are we a bit more proactive and we get an alert uh
that there's been an increase in certain types of errors on Slack and we can try and fix it
hopefully before customers notice or with minimal customers noticing. And that's where observability
is really important. is basically what's going on with our app and more importantly has something
gone wrong. In terms of this talk, we're going to be covering three main what we call observability
signals in the auto world. You may have seen these referred to as pillars. Uh essentially the same
thing, but uh in the auto world, I believe they refer to them as signals. So really quickly, logs.
I'm sure most of us are quite familiar with these. It's like point in time something's happened,
right? 805 this happened. Here's a stack trace, right? I think most developers are relatively
familiar with logs. They give us a decent amount of context why something happened. Uh and you know
we we we uh we we uh add them to our code and we we collect and look at them and you know data dog
or coral logix or wherever it may be. We have traces. I find that traces developers don't know as
well me included uh go back circuit 18 months ago. But traces essentially what they allow us to do
is view the life cycle of a user action. Sometimes you may hear people say it's the life cycle of a
request. I think that can be a bit misleading because when people say request people will think HTTP
request which is not it's not like a onetoone mapping but for example if the user presses an order
button on your website what's happening and we will talk about that they kind of give us this
holistic view of the system right and because they contain a lot of context a lot of data typically
we'll be sampling our traces uh because otherwise our storage costs can skyrocket and then finally
we have metrics uh which are there for aggregating numerical data generally don't have a lot of
context and if for For those of you who are wondering what I mean by context, I will cover that. But
essentially, we just mean like extra information. Metrics on their own don't give you loads of
information. They're great for like kind of analyzing trends. And we'll kind of cover all three of
these in some level of detail, particularly focusing on tracing in this talk. Hopefully, we'll be
able to build something a bit more useful than this, but I suppose some observability is better than
no observability. So, um they do say London has the most CCTV cameras of uh I think per whatever
that uh per square meter. So again, make it that what you will. For those of you who might be still
confused, let's pivot. Uh imagine we own a pizza shop, right? A log message from a pizza shop or our
pizza shop service, ordering service might be order 123, large veggie pizza burn at 85 due to oven
failure. So we've got a time stamp there. We've got some extra information about the order ID. We've
got what kind of order it was and why it failed. Right? So we've got a decent amount of context. A
trace might look like order 1 2 3 took 30 minutes in total. 5 minutes to prepare, 20 minutes to
cook, 5 minutes to deliver. And we could attach some extra context there. We could attach who
ordered it, and we could attach what kind of pizza we were cooking as well. But generally speaking,
that's what trace is. Uh, and then for metrics, it's going to be something like we sold 50 pizzas an
hour, the average time was 8 minutes. And again, we could potentially split this by uh the type of
pizza we were cooking. And we could drill down a little bit more, but there's not loads of context
there. And of course, keeping our pizza shop service is really important because I'm sure we can all
appreciate pizza makes the world go round. It's uh the reason some people turn up to some of those
meetups. Uh might be guilty of that. Don't know if Ferguson's in the room, but anyways. So, some of
you might be wondering, great, why does observability matter? Raise your hand if you've woken been
woken up at 2 am because of a production incident and you have had no idea what's going on. Yeah,
about maybe half the room, maybe quarter of the room. So, we've all been there and we've all
experienced when we just don't have enough tools or we don't have enough information to debug what's
going on and especially being sleepd deprived that makes things worse, right? So, it's kind of that
first bullet point there. Provide context to issues. So, if users can't log in, why can't they log
in? Is it because our block list service has like gone crazy, right? Like it's blocking everything.
Maybe we're locking users out. Or is it because people are just getting their password wrong? Maybe
it's someone spamming our system to try and log in, right? It can also be useful for finding
bottlenecks in the system. So Google, I think this is quite an old statistic, but over 50% of users
will abandon a website if it takes more than 3 seconds to load or app, right? So, we want to make
sure our systems are as snappy as possible and bottlenecks in the system. Finding them, if you're
not observing things or if you're not collecting data, how do you know what's going to be a
bottleneck? Maybe you can guess that this service is a bit slow. Um, and particularly in this world
of microservices, I think a decent amount of us are probably using microservices. And your
particular microser might just be one in five in the flow, right? And if yours is taking a second
and all the rest are taking a second, uh, all of a sudden that does add up quite quickly. Now, I
know ops teams don't really exist per se, but imagine replace that with on call. We want to avoid
making the person on call uh a pain in the ass for them. So, we want to make sure it's working
everywhere and if it breaks, we want to make it clear why it's broken. So, what's or open telemetry?
Uh just really quickly, uh for those of you who know about utel, I don't know which way around.
Okay. So, I I'm in the majority. I I think I'll alternate between the two. I don't think I have a
consistent way, but I'll probably generally say Otto. Sorry, guys. Uh but yeah, it's it's open
telemetry, which is basically this open standard where it came about because data your data should
be your own, right? So, let me kind of take you back. Uh what generally happened is we wanted
traces. And don't worry if you don't know what traces are. I will show you what a trace looks like
in just a second. But we wanted traces. So what what what would we do? We would have like a data dog
agent and that data dog agent would then collect some information, send it to data dog and we could
view our trace there. Fantastic. Perhaps if you're with uh if you're using Kubernetes, maybe you're
using like a sidecar or something like that, right? And that's fantastic. Except what happens now if
you want to move to Jagger or Zipkin or another trace provider and you're using microservices 150
100 services you have to go update that agent of. So that that's where open telemetry came around.
There was a few others I think before that tried to solve this problem, but open telemetry kind of
is the industry standard. And essentially what it is is your application is now going to generate
tracing information and it's just going to export it somewhere and it's going to export it to this
thing called the auto collector which you can think of as kind of this proxy service and it kind of
decouples our service from worrying about traces or any observability signal. All of our stuff is
going to go to this auto collector. This auto collector can then do transform, convert, whatever it
needs to do. If we want to send it to data dog, it can convert it to the data dog format. If we want
to send it to Jerger, it can send convert to the Jerger format and then send it. It's just a couple
of lines of config. If we want to send it to both, we can also do that. Uh, you know, if we're doing
a bake off or something and we want to see what is the best provider for us. So, we've just uh we're
just managing that all via config now and it makes things a lot easier. And recently, well, quite a
while now, but recently you can do metrics and quite recently uh I think logs are now out of beta.
So you can actually manage all three traces, metrics and logs via auto and it it it you know it can
make kind of that instrumentation a lot simpler because we just export everything to the auto
collector and that handles sending it wherever we need to go and we can do that via config. Uh this
is a joke before people start telling me I don't know how probability works. I just found this on
the internet. Found it quite funny. But I think we've all been there where it just feels like most
of our time is not spent writing code. It's debugging something and it's even worse in production
because you can't do break points. You can't necessarily use a debugger uh at least not uh in a in a
very straightforward way. So I think you know making our lives easier is is really really important.
So hopefully I'm going to be able to play this uh video here. So this is kind of what we're going to
try and achieve. This is part of that looks good to me stack. We have Grafana here and we have Loki
which is our logging database right and what we can see is we're getting logs as structured data and
we have something called trace ID and span ID in that uh in that kind of block. So this is all
structured and we can kind of search and filter and do various things and we can also correlate
between our different signals. So now we have gone by trace ID and found the trace in tempo which is
our tracing database. Not a particularly interesting trace. Uh it's just showing us the 401 error.
There's some useful information there. Unauthorized, failed, etc., etc., right? So, okay. And we
have a rough time of how long it took. That's pretty cool. Uh, and then we can go back and look at
the logs and we can look at all the logs for this trace. And that could be across multiple
microservices and that can be really useful. I found this feature particularly useful outside of
Graphana, wherever it may be. But that is really cool. We can then also just search from tempo
itself. Uh, you can just see mess around a little bit. I keep forgetting how to use it. There we go.
I find a trace. This trace is a bit more interesting because it has more what we call spans and we
will cover spans in just a second. And we have something called attributes. Uh and we can see us
even interacting with the database in just a second. Uh over here uh we can see that we we've ran a
query against the database and we have an attribute which actually shows us the query you ran. Super
useful for debugging when something's gone wrong. We can hopefully see the query we ran as well uh
and check that that's correct. We can also now go and look at Prometheus or Prometheus like we're
going to be using MIMA touch on that in a second but we can look at some requests uh some metrics
and some uh we have these special metrics called exemplars which we'll touch on towards the end of
this talk and that allows us to correlate a metric with a trace. So we can go we see a 401 error we
can go and look at the trace and see why do we see that 401. Uh these are just these are not my
recommended this was just the default goo uh YouTube ones. Uh, oops. Uh, let's come back here. Oops.
Sorry. There we go. Cool. So, let's take a look at what an ordering service might look like for our
pizza shop. So, we've got the website there. The user presses the order button. The order button
then goes to our order service which goes to our user service which then goes to Postgress and
Reddus and collects some information. Goes back to the order service which then saves stuff in
Postgress. It then goes to the payment gateway which then goes to stripe which then finally we
publish a event to CFKA which is consumed by the email service and goes to our SMTP server to send
an email. You can see I'm out of breath just kind of explaining that flow. Uh and in some uh places
this is probably quite simple. We haven't handled retries. We haven't really spoken about other
things that could make this more complicated. So, keeping this in your brain and trying to
understand what's going on can be really tricky. So, that's where tracing is really useful because
if we could visualize this in a trace, that probably makes our life easier. And especially if you're
new to a flow, this becomes way easier to visualize. So, this is kind of what I want you to think
about when you're like, why is tracing or distribute tracing as as it's referred to useful? So let's
take a look at this example service. This is not production grade code. Uh so if you see something
slightly wrong, don't worry about it so much. This is just more the concept. We're just going to
have a single HTTP endpoint here on our server. And it's just allowing us to search for a user based
on an ID, right? And we're just going to search uh sorry, we're just going to start a server on port
8080 and we're just going to have a single handler which is just going to go to the database, fetch
a user, return it. Right? Cool. Not much observability, not much of what's going on. It's hard to
tell, right? So, we're going to instrument this as they say this application. We're going to add
traces, logs, and metrics to this. Again, don't worry about this so much. This is more if you want
to go through on your own time and follow this. We're going to uh download a bunch of Go modules
here, mostly from open telemetry uh and uh get started. We're also going to set this environment
variable. This is to do with that auto collect I told you about. This basically tells our
application where to export our metric uh our observability signals. So our traces and this is where
our auto collector is going to be running. Because this is a local setup, the auto collector is just
going to be running in a Docker container. We've set up some port forwarding. But the application
doesn't worry too much. It just knows it needs to export it there. If it can't exploit it, it will
let us know that it failed. So that's always useful. But that's just what this environment variable
is. We're going to be exporting all of our observability signals to this auto collector. And then
that can handle doing whatever it needs to do. So then we create a new function. We're going to call
it new trace provider. Again, don't worry about following this line by line. I just want you to kind
of understand this at a high level. We're going to set up an exporter which is basically going to
just export to that environment variable we just spoke about, right? It's going to use that
environment variable and export our traces over there. Then we're going to set up a trace provider
uh and it's going to do some batching. So occasionally, you know, every x seconds, it's just going
to export all of our traces. We set that as our global trace provider. So whenever we reference
tracing now using auto it's going to use this one unless we override it which is when we're getting
started definitely what we want. And then finally we have this concept of propagators and this is
quite important because propagation is the mechanism that moves uh context between services right so
what's really important here is that we need some way of moving this trace ID between uh most of our
services and how we do that is one of the ways is propagation we use this trace context and this is
particularly concerned in the HTTP world and this is going to happen via HTTP headers So if the
order service calls a user service, then we're going to pass that via HTTP headers, right? So we're
going to set some tracing information in those headers and it's going to send that over. And it's
really important that we set this on all of our services. So when it receives a request, it knows,
oh, this trace ID already exists. I'm going to carry on this trace and I'm going to create what they
call a new span. And that's really useful. So uh we're going to return that trace provider. For
those of you who are wondering what the trace context looks like, it looks something like this. And
we will cover we'll break that down in just a second. Uh and then in our main function, we're going
to set up this new trace provider. Uh we're going to check if there's an error and we're just going
to defer shutting it down so that if there's any traces, we can uh push them before the server shuts
down. Essentially, what we're also going to do is we're going to use some middleware available to us
from OTL. And essentially what we're doing here is instrumenting all of our um endpoints so that
they will automatically trace uh uh set up tracing. So either they'll carry on a trace if we if we
get one or if there was no trace information in the HP request, it will carry on it will start a new
trace uh and uh we don't have to write any code to do that. It auto instruments that for us and then
we just have a few things about how we're going to name the span. We're just going to do it via
method and URL path just to make it easier to search. Uh, and then if you see that, just to have
that round all of our end points, we're just going to have that M, which is the middleware wrap wrap
that marks. So, just sorry, just bear with me for a second because I realized we skipped some slides
when I was uh, faffing around with that YouTube video. So, I apologize because we were supposed to
cover this before and I was wondering why we didn't. So, spans are units of work for traces. They're
the building blocks of traces. Basically, in our code, we're never actually creating a trace. What
we're doing is we're creating a span and if there's a trace ID already available, so if there's some
trace context, it's going to carry on that trace. And that is really important because if we don't
pass that trace context along, what we're going to end up is 20 traces with one span each rather
than one trace with 20 spans, which is quite useful. So essentially what we're doing is we're
linking spans with trace IDs, right? That's essentially all you need to think about. So we're just
going to go over spans really quickly. Again, there's not going to be a pop quiz at the end, so
don't worry too much. But spans have a name, start and finish time stamp, which is how we can see
how long they took. They have a context, which we'll look at just a second. And they have an
attribute, which are key value pairs. One example we already saw was we had a a key of DB query
text, and then an attribute of uh the SQL query we actually ran against that. So we can kind of just
put arbitrary data that we find useful for providing more context in our span attributes. Then we
have a bunch of optional fields, a set of events, optional parent span ID. For those of you who are
familiar with the concept of DAGs or directed as cyclic graphs, you can kind of hopefully start to
understand how you could generate like a this kind of directed asyclic graph. You have parents and
children and it's kind of easy to see the relationship of what calls what. So that really helps as
well. We can also have optional links to other spans and a span status and we will see some of that
in just a second. So we have the span context here and I visualized this as HTTP headers because
that's how I kind of visualize it in my head and that's where it really made sense for me. So
hopefully that makes some sense to you. So we've got trace state there which is a list of key value
pairs for vendor specific information. Remember is vend agnostic. So sometimes vendors need special
information. So we have that but we we don't really care about that too much. The trace parent is
the kind of interesting one. So it's split by hyphens but if we kind of break that down. The first
bit is version. Currently it's always version 00. Then we have the trace ID D4 D. Then we have the
span ID 6E etc. So those are that's part of that span context. Then we have some extra information
about trace flags. A 01 just means sample this trace. 0 means ignore this trace. So again, as I
said, tracing has a lot of information. So hopefully that kind of explains this trace context. And
making sure that trace ID is consistent and passed along propagated is really, really important. I'm
going to quickly cover some other concepts that kind of confuse me uh and hopefully won't catch you
out when you get into this world. I was like, what's a link? What's a span link? Well, it's
basically a way to connect two spans who are related but don't have a direct parent child
relationship and uh some of us will be using event- driven systems and it can be particularly useful
there because you know you can't predict when something's going to start consuming because it's
going to happen in its own time. It's a a asynchronous. So hopefully that makes some sense about
links. Not used very often but useful to know. We also have span events which basically denote a
single point in time. For example, when a page becomes interactable, maybe that's a span event. And
there's a bit of confusion when to use attributes versus when to use events. You want to use an
event when the time stamp is relevant. If the time stamp is uh is important to that piece of
information, use an event. Otherwise, just defer and use attributes. Again, just providing a bit
more context to your span if you if you need that. And kind of the final thing I want to cover,
spans can have types. You can uh either uh give them a type of client, server, internal, producer,
or consumer. The default is always internal. And then there's a few other rules we follow where the
child of a producer is always a consumer and the child of a client is always a server. And for those
of you who are kind of familiar with these concepts, that roughly makes sense, right? So if we go
back and look at a trace, the red blocks are basically our spans here. And hopefully you can start
to see some of that child uh parent relationship that we were talking about. We can see like how
some of these attributes are useful. Again, this was all running locally, hence it looks pretty
quick. In production, it will probably be a bit slower. Uh but yeah, so we've got some information.
We got some names. We got some time stamps. We got some kinds there which which we already saw. We
we can see this case it errored. And we can see the relationship doesn't exist. And hopefully that
gives us enough information to solve our problem. And if we take a look at span a bit closer, we can
again see the attributes. You know, we've got the query text. Uh and then the actual SQL query we
ran. Ignore that SQL query. It's just fetching some subscription info. It could probably be a little
bit nicer, but hey ho. Uh then we've got some events there, which I haven't really shown. And we got
some other useful pieces of information. So hopefully that makes sense. And now I can actually go
back to where we should have been. So apologies again if if if for any confusion. So what is that
middleware? So we we spoke about this middleware that was uh that would auto instrument our
application and uh generate traces for us. What's that middleware actually doing? Well, in this case
the go context or the request context here. What it's doing is this R.context will contain our
tracing context. So we can actually pull tracing out of it. So it's going to inject that. And what's
really important with all of our observability signals is we pass this context around correctly. So
we want to pass the CTX object that actually has the trace context in it because if it doesn't have
it, we're just going to start new traces and that's not really useful. So that middleware is
automatically going to start a trace or carry on a trace and inject the relevant tracing context
into that CTX. And when we log, when we use metrics, we want to make sure it's that same context. So
we want to make sure that middleware is kind of the one that runs first. So we can pull some
information like some span information. There's this thing called baggage which allows you to pass
key value pairs as well as a form of propagation. That can be kind of useful when you don't want to
pollute your HTTP request with some observability info, right? You want to keep that clean. So you
send that as as baggage. Don't worry again about the code examples. I will have a service an example
service you can take a look at and use and go through in your own time that's actually in
production. Um so that probably will be a bit more useful. We can also start custom spans if we want
like if there's a critical part of our code and we want to make sure that is tracked we can just
start it. We just give it a name. So I've just named it after the function here. Uh again make
making sure that that context variable that ctx context variable is is quite important that's passed
around. So we start a span like so. We can uh end it when the function ends. Uh we can set
attributes as we said those are key value pairs if we want. Uh we can even record errors. We can
record why error and we can set the state status as an error just a database error. We can uh set
optional attributes. So if the users a premium so you can do all this stuff uh you can do your own
spans. Uh and hopefully if the tracing context is passed properly you'll be able to see that uh in
graphana wherever you visualize your traces. And just to kind of summarize this, if we were to kind
of take a look at this in a JSON format, this is perhaps what it might look like. We've got the
context trace ID, span ID. In this case, the span doesn't have a parent. We have the start and end
time stamp. We have some attributes like some HP root stuff which might be interesting. And then we
have an event, right? So, and event can have attributes as well. So, you can also uh instrument kind
of some of your infrastructure. So, it doesn't just have to be your service. We can also do it with
Postgress and other such things. So this will be available. I'm sure you'll be able to do this with
any database. Uh and you don't have to use PGX. If you're using PGX with a Postgress, you can just
use this library like I have. And it's just one line of code. Uh so one line of code uh where we set
up the pool uh and it will auto instrument our code. So whenever we make queries against the
database, it will include those spans. Uh and if we take a look uh we've already kind of seen the
span a bit, but I didn't write any of this code myself to do this. It's all just coming from the
library and you can even see that at the top right. Similarly, we can do this with Reddis or Valky.
We create our Reddis client. We instrument that instrument tracing again just one line auto
instrumented and out of the box we can start to see traces like so you can see the DB statement and
you can see some server address and other such useful information. You kind of get that free out of
the box. Don't really have to do much. So yeah, that's pretty powerful. One other thing to consider
is the HTTP client you're using. So if the order service calls the user service, we need to make
sure their headers actually get passed. So the tracing headers that we saw actually get passed. Now
every time we make a request, we could pull that information out of the context and inject it
ourselves. Or we could just set up a client uh using the HTTP library to do that for us. And so now
when we use this client, it's automatically just going to take what's in that context uh and set
that as headers. And when the order service calls a user service, it's going to pass that
information along. And we can do that just like so. Uh here we can just set what again what we want
to call the span. Uh you can sanitize it. So if you don't want uh each unique one for each user
maybe you could replace that with ID etc etc because of path parameters and such. And then we can
just call that client as we as we would. And again that ctx variable quite important that we pass
that around and that has that tracing context in because when we create this new client and we make
that request it's automatically going to be injected into those HTTP headers. Hopefully that makes
sense. Uh and then equally if we were to log that on like the user service side we would be able to
see the HTTP headers coming through and we would be able to log that. Uh just one thing to note if
you are using this client for everything note when you call third parties you'll be sending those
tracing headers. So just make sure there's nothing sensitive in there especially if you're using
something like baggage where you can set arbitrary key value pairs. Don't put any sensitive
information there. And the final thing we're really going to talk about tracing uh in terms of
infrastructure is you can do it with CFKA or event buses. So if you've got France go and this will
work I'm sure for any uh library is all we're going to do is we're just going to set the tracing
context or add it as headers to CFKA very similar. Um I actually wrote code to do this myself before
I realized it was a chaot plugin. So we're just going to use that and we set it up like so. We just
set it up as a hook and then we can produce and consume as we normally would. And if we logged just
before we produced, we would be able to see those that tracing information available. And then
equally on the consuming side, if we were to process that record or that event, we would be able to
see that on the tracing side as well. On the on the consuming side, we would be able to see the
trace information. Hopefully that makes sense. Uh and then that basically allows us to visualize the
producing and consuming via our spans as well. And that can be particularly powerful because I think
one of the biggest downsides to event- driven architectures is you do lose some of that
observability that you might otherwise have. And the final thing I want to uh talk about with
regards to tracing is sampling. As we've said, there's a lot of information that you collect from
traces. As we've already seen, sending all of that for every request 100 uh if you have a 100
services that might not be particularly useful. So you might want to sample some of your traces. And
there's a few to two main methods. There's head-based, which is basically you you say, uh, I want to
sample only 5% of my traces. So 95% of the time, we're just going to throw that trace away. Uh, and
that's called head-based sampling. So it's just probabilistic. When you generate a trace, it's just
going to say, okay, there's a 5% chance. And we saw that with the headers. Uh, you remember the 01
that tells us it wants to be sampled, otherwise it doesn't want to be sampled. Tailbased is a bit
more interesting, but a bit more complicated. With tailbase, you can uh for example, when it's going
to the auto collector, you can set it up that for if if there's any error, we want to sample that,
right? Uh maybe for successful requests, we don't really care so much about sampling. We just want
to sample a few. But for errors, we want to sample all of them or specific kind of errors, we want
to sample all of them. And that's where tailbased is particularly useful. But then with tailbased,
there's a few considerations. It needs to be stateful because it needs to keep things in memory. So
if your service crashes like the auto collector and restarts, you can lose information. So, it's
just like everything. It's trade-offs, right? So, uh yeah, that's sampling in a nutshell. Feel free
to go look that up in more detail, but I just wanted to make you aware it's possibly something you
you want to look at. All right, onto our next observability signal. As I said, we spent a lot of
time on tracing just because I know it's quite a new concept to lots of developers. I thought it'd
be particularly useful, but we're going to cover metrics uh kind of briefly. So, metrics are there
for storing numerical data which don't have a lot of context. And we will touch on what we mean by
not a lot of context. Uh but that makes them really fast to query and quite cheap to store. And
we're going to store it as time series data. And by time series you just mean we're keeping track of
time and we're going to kind of graph it along time and view the value. Most of you using metrics
are probably using Prometheus style metrics uh visualizing them in graphana and querying them using
this language called promql. I'm sure that's most of what uh people are doing these days and that's
absolutely fine. In this case, what we're going to do is our application is going to generate OTLP
or OTL style metrics. It's going to export them to the auto collector and that's going to handle
converting them to Prometheus. So, we're still going to be playing around with PromQL, but we're
actually going to be generating a slightly different type of metric. So, really quickly, we have
four main types of metrics for those of you who might not be aware. We have counters for tracking
everinccreasing values. So, for example, the total number of requests that's always going to be
going up. We have gauges for measuring flucturing values. So like CPU usage, memory usage, etc.,
etc. We have histograms for kind of observing the distribution of values, right? Uh this is this can
be particularly useful for like looking at latency of certain end points, etc., etc. Then we have
the up-own counter for values that go up and down, things like Q size. But with upown counter, we're
more measuring the change, how much did it change? Whereas with a gauge, we don't really care about
the previous value. Whereas an updown counter, we do. So that's kind of the the slight difference.
We have async versions of these. You can go uh look them up. Again, there's no pop uh pop quiz at
the end. So, don't worry about if you don't remember all of this. It's just to give you a rough idea
of the different kind of metrics we do have. And then really quickly, how does a metric look like?
Well, it has a name. It has these things called attributes. And attributes are the things that add
context to our metric. And for example, if we're doing like the total number of requests, some
attributes that we might want to have might be the root. So, the HTP root or the endpoint we're
calling, right? because maybe we want to filter at that later on. Maybe we want to keep track of the
response code because maybe we want to look at all all of our requests that failed. When you're kind
of creating attributes or as you might know them in Grafana as labels, you kind of already thinking
about what you want to query. That's why with metrics, we don't have provide a lot of context. We
don't provide attributes with loads of values because we kind of have a rough idea what we want to
query. Whereas with traces and logs, generally speaking, we don't really know what we want to query.
So we give a load of information and then we can query that later on as we need. But yeah, so that's
where attributes are. They provide a little bit of context, but we don't want attributes that
provide too much and we'll see why in just a second. Then obviously this is time series data. So we
also want to store the time stamp and then of course the value that we actually want to keep track
of i.e. the total number of requests. It's a thousand now in 5 seconds it could be a thousand1 you
know etc etc. So set metrics again we fetch some packages. Don't worry about uh exactly what we're
doing there. But yeah, then we create a meter provider. We're going to set up an exporter just like
we did before. This is going to export our metrics to the auto collector. And again, the auto
collector is going to handle transforming them. We set up a meter provider like we did before and
it's going to periodically export our metrics. All good. We can auto instrument our application to
get some metrics. So we can collect some runtime metrics automatically. Go routines, that kind of
stuff. heap all that all that stuff that you might be familiar with. We can also sorry instrument it
to collect host metrics. So that can be stuff about CPU usage, memory usage. Perhaps you already
have a mechanism for doing this. So you don't need to do this. In my case, this service was only
running in a as a single container. So that was uh I decided to collect some host metrics and then
again we set that as the global meter provider and that's absolutely fine just for most use cases.
And then we return that. And much as we did with the tracer provider in our main function, we call
it check if there's any errors, defer the shutdown. Now, most of you who are uh exporting metrics
from your service will probably be doing it with client Prometheus style metrics. Uh in the auto
world, there's not a lot of I couldn't find a middleware. In the client Prometheus world, there's a
bunch of middlewares you can just use that will allow uh automatically generate some HTTP useful
metrics. Uh so for those of you who aren't aware, basically the middleware is just going to be every
time we receive a request, we're just going to set some metric information. So if we take a look at
an example again, there'll be a service at the end. You can go and look at here. We're just setting
up a simple counter. So we're just going to increment this every time we receive a request. So we
set this up once. Uh then we give it some attributes or some labels to give it some context. So the
method key is going to be like what was it a get, a post, a delete? The response status code is it
was it a 200? Was it 500? Was it 400? And we can then filter on that later on. And then obviously
the root because maybe we want to look at how many requests each of our roots are receiving or uh
HTTP endpoints, right? And then finally, every time we receive a request, we're just going to
increment it by one. And then as a functional option, we just pass those attributes so that they can
be added in. One caveat with attributes though uh those of you experienced with uh Prometheus will
already be aware avoid high cardality attributes or labels. What do we mean by high cardality?
Basically I'm talking about that user ID there. And this is also what we meant by context. This is
not the kind of stuff generally speaking we want to add. Again there there will probably be reasons
you might want to do so. But if we take a look what's happening here we could have a million users.
We might have a 100 endpoints and we might have five methods with 20 status codes. I've exaggerated
this a little bit. It's probably not that bad, but each unique combination of that generates what we
call a time series graph, right? Uh and each of those might take one kilobyte of uh metadata. And if
we uh multiply that all out and we have all of those combinations, we are going to generate 10
billion time series which already is going to be 10 terabytes of data just in metadata alone. If we
remove the user ID, all of a sudden that becomes much more manageable. Right? Obviously, Prometheus
in reality will start to throw away metrics and do other stuff, but you probably don't want to lose
uh all of your metrics just because you've added a user ID. So, that's kind of what we meant by
context and avoiding high cardality metrics. Hopefully, that makes sense. The final bit on metrics,
I just want to kind of show you some metrics, visualizing them in Graphana. So, here here's what we
were talking about with label filters, right? Uh we added some for context, the HP status code. So
now what we're doing is we're just looking at the successful requests and we're splitting them by
endpoint. So we can see the homepage has received the most number of requests and remember counters
are always going up. Uh then we got the fave icon and we got other pages. So it's kind of useful. I
have made a slight mistake in this query. So the you can see the promql at the bottom there with the
sum by most of the time I think people are building these with the graphana query builder but uh you
can also write promql by hand if if you wanted to. The mistake I made uh and I'm sure some of you
have already caught it is that counters should never decrease. However, metrics are just stored in
memory for your service. So guess what happens when your service crashes? The metric will go back to
zero and you need to account for the fact in your query that counters can go back to zero. So if it
went back to zero with this current function, everything would go down rather than uh the next time
it received like one maybe uh rather than showing 19 or 18 as we would expect for the the green uh
the green graph, it would show one. And what you can do to counteract that is used rate and I rate
and other functions that Prometheus uh gives you to account for the fact that counters uh can go
back to zero. Uh this one catches people out. It caught me out. A senior developer told me off for
it. Uh so keep that in mind right that uh counters can reset back to zero in in your application and
uh Prometheus is not going to do anything for you to account for that. You have to do it yourself.
Finally, I want to touch on histograms because I think histograms are one of those things people
don't know as well and and I was in that uh um camp as well. So we can tell this is a histogram
because we're looking at buckets. Uh and what we're essentially plotting here is if you can see I
don't know how well you can see at the back but we're looking at the 95th quantile. And essentially
what we're saying is at any point in this graph, so if you look at the green uh green graph for the
homepage, what we're saying at any point 5% of requests were slower than this. If we just looked
down latency of our endpoint, it might say 100 milliseconds. We're like fantastic, that's great. But
we want to start looking at outliers because even 1% of our customers could be 10,000 customers,
100,000 customers. And maybe when you look at like the slowest 5% of requests are going to be slower
than 8 and a half maybe imagine that wasn't milliseconds maybe that's 8 850 milliseconds and maybe
that's really slow because again there's other microservices and we're saying 5% of requests are
even slower than that right so that's where histograms are really powerful and for those of you who
might not be as familiar with the maths essentially what we're doing is we're storing these in these
kind of buckets and if we're looking at the 95th percentile it's going to be somewhere between the
8.0 zero bucket. So LE is less than. So we're saying less than 8.0 seconds and it's going to be
somewhere between 0.8 and 1. Uh Prometheus will do some extrapolation and that's going to be roughly
0.94 seconds, right? And all of a sudden when we start looking at these outliers, uh histograms can
be great for showing that and see maybe 1 second is too slow for our customers for those customers
at the top. Hopefully that makes sense. That's kind of some of the power of histograms. On to
logging. Sorry. Uh, wrong kind of logging. So, logs, I think developers are generally speaking quite
familiar with them. So, we won't spend loads of time on it. But what is essentially what's happened
in our application and it's the common way I suspect most of us are debugging our application.
Right? We're going to data dog, we're going to coral logics, we're looking at logs, we're trying to
roughly look at the time when we know an error happened or an alert has gone off, etc., etc., right?
So, some of you will be asking me, but see, why auto and logging? And and to be to be fair, it also
kind of applies to metrics. There's a few reasons. Context propagation. We can automatically attach
our trace context to our logs. So we can inject a trace ID and a span ID automatically into our
logs. We don't have to do that ourselves. Uh Otle will handle that for us. Correlation linking logs
to traces and traces to logs. Really useful. If you take nothing else from this talk, if you're in
microservices, if you're using microservices, uh, and you don't have like a trace ID or a
correlation ID, uh, between all of your logs, you know, showing you, uh, all of the logs related to
like kind of a request, really, really useful. Like you might not always bubble up the information
like, you know, service A calls B, which calls C, you might have to go to service C to actually see
the the actual error and understand it. And that's been super useful for me in the past. a unified
schema. We can kind of define these attributes and share them across all of our signals, right? So
we can just do it in one place and we don't have to worry about keeping them in sync. And of course
a reduced overhead. We don't have like three mechanisms for pulling observability signals.
Everything is just going to be exported to the auto collector and that's all going to be done by
config. We're going to be looking at structured logging. For those of you who aren't familiar with
structured logging, just pretend it's like a JSON object. So rather than doing like a free text reg
x we can just like search for specific attributes. We can say find all the logs with this trace ID
with this key and this value. And that means for low key and other such logging databases it's a lot
quicker to query. Again we're going to fetch a bunch of packages. Don't worry about that. Sorry
modules don't worry about that so much. We're going to set up a logger provider as we have done
before. We'll notice this min thing which we'll talk about in just a second. But yeah we're going to
export our logs as we did before. We're going to batch our logs and then we have this minb thing and
that's basically to do with log level. Locally, you might want a log level of debug, but when you go
to production, maybe you don't want debug level logs cuz they're too noisy. So, you might want to
set info or warning or error, right? You maybe only want to see error level logs. So, that's where
we're using the min there just to say throwaway logs lower than this severity because we don't
really care about them, right? So, using severity and logs can be super useful uh for that. Then we
just set up a log provider as we have before. Uh global here is part of the auto library, the auto
logging library. It's not something I've done myself, but it basically just does the same thing as
the rest of our code, which is just when we reference a logging provider, we're just going to be
referencing this one by default. And that's absolutely fine. And then f in our main function, we
call it like we normally would, right? Like we've done the rest of our providers. We check if
there's an error, etc., etc. Then uh we have to go a little bit further with logs actually
unfortunately uh well not unfortunately it's just that team decided to take a different approach
because logging is quite mature as compared with traces and metrics and what they did is they came
up with these bridges and the bridge basically transforms your slog we're going to use slog from the
standard library your slog record into something Otto can understand so for my setup for logging for
locally I have a standard out logger so that's just going to log to my terminal because that's quite
easy to makes it easier to debug then I also have this auto uh uh handler which is going to use the
slog library and it's just going to send uh make sure that the records are converted and sent over
to the auto collector as we've seen and then I just use this slog multi so whenever I log it logs to
both if that makes sense logs to standard out and the auto handler in production I don't care as
much I'm not really going to look at the standard out of like flyio or whatever my provider is so we
just uh we we I'm going to view that in graphana and then we uh return the logger as you normally
would and we call the logger as we normally would. You can pass it via strruct or you can pass it
via context. And then again that ctx variable as long as it has the trace context if we did
something like so we would get output like that. And then uh the tint output looks something like
this. It's nice just to view on the terminal and the graphana one we've kind of already seen. Then
just really quickly to summarize where might you use what? How many errors occurred? Probably a
metric. Why did a specific request fail? You might start off with tracing, but you're probably going
to solve that using a log. You know, you're going to require detailed error context. Is latency
increasing? We've kind of already seen what we were looking at. We were looking at the P95 latency.
Uh, but that's going to be a metric. Again, we're going to be looking at latency by metrics. Things
like bottlenecks, probably traces. Why did a request time out? Again, probably a trace. See what
took so long. Why is uh the user not able to log in? Probably going to be a log. But yeah, going
over really quickly just a few other auto concepts that were I was wondering what they are. So we
have these things called resources which basically just describe the source of the telemetry data.
So for example, if you're in a container in Kubernetes, maybe you want to attach some kind of
metadata to our observability signals. Uh you can do it via an environment variable or you can do it
via code. And so for example, the deployment environment key is really useful because I uh for lots
of my setups I just have one set of like say graphfana and then I can just filter on using the
deployment key dev or production and you can attach lots of other useful information and then you
could potentially filter by oh this container is misbehaving why is it misbehaving and you can look
at just specific data just to that and then we can pass this as a functional option. You might have
also seen the sem library semantic convention that's basically just to give us kind of these
consistent names or strings so we don't have to worry about naming and that will be common across
languages and tools. So we saw it with our attributes here and we see Sm uh and basically we get
strings like so and if you did it in Java it would be a string etc etc right finishing off the
observability part some antiatterns to avoid emitting a log for every HTTP request use a metric
instead in production might be fine locally trying to capture a user ID and a metric we've already
seen don't do that generally speaking use logs and traces and logging without trace ids Please try
and use trace ids. It just makes your life a lot easier, especially in the microservices world. The
final part of our talk, we're just really quickly going to go over the looks good to me stack. I
think it's just a really cool acronym. Uh so what it stands for is Loki for our logging database,
graphfana for kind of visualizing everything, tempo as our tracing database, and MIMA as our metrics
database. Quick note on MIMA. In production, you will probably using Prometheus and MIMA as a
backend instead of Thanos. Don't worry if you don't know what that means, but essentially just to
simplify our local setup, I just use MIMA and then it fits quite nicely into the it looks good to me
stack. And essentially this is what uh this is what we're achieving here, right? We're collecting
OTLP data that's going to the auto collector. It's then via config going to send it to Prometheus,
Tempo, and Loki. We're then going to connect those as data sources to Graphana and view that on the
Graphana UI. That's essentially what we're doing. I think this is a great diagram from the team.
We're running a bit behind so I'm not really going to go over the docker compose setup much but
there'll be an example at the end but it's essentially just spinning up all those things we just
spoke about. Um so a little bit about the auto collector. I've spoken about it a lot and I think
this diagram explains things really well. The auto collector can receive data in a number of
formats. So OTLP, Jerger, Prometheus. It can then batch transform filter. Your security team might
love it because you can start filtering logs. If you see like 16 digits split by hyphens, ooh, could
be a credit card number. Let's make sure we don't actually send that to our logging provider, right?
And then we can transform data and we can send it in the Jerger format, Zipkin format, whatever it
may be. We could even send it uh keep it in the OTLP format if we wanted to because lots of our
providers now actually support OTLP metrics traces uh and and hopefully soon to be logs. Um
obviously in our case, we're converting stuff into Prometheus for for metrics and that's how we
visualized it. So in terms of the auto collector, the one I actually went with is Alloy, which is
made by the Grafana team and has this nice UI, but basically does the exact same thing as the autoc
collector just uh in a slightly different config language. They say it's a bit easier to integrate
with Kubernetes and a few other things, but um for all intents and purposes, you can use the auto
collector, you can use alloy. I quite like the UI just to be able to see uh everything is set
properly. We can see Loki there, we can see Prometheus, and we can see the default OTP exporter. One
other thing uh part of Grafana that I like setting up was setting up data sources but rather than
doing it via the UI you can do it via code and it makes it easier for new people to get set up and
if you lose your docker volumes it can make it a bit nicer and this is how essentially we were
correlating our data when we saw in the YouTube video. So if we have Prometheus here we have this
thing called exemplars which is how we went from a metric to a trace. So it's just like if you see a
trace ID use the data source tempo Loki for our logs we have this thing called the derived field and
that's basically just doing a redex check and if it sees a trace ID it's it can search that trace ID
for our data source tempo for our traces and that's how we linked logs to traces and then finally we
have tempo which is for tracing uh and that will use trace to logs and trace to metrics so we can
link our traces to logs and metrics as well and really quickly in the graphana UI if it's set up
properly oh I appreciate is really terrible. You can't see that at the back. But if it's set up, you
can do something like so. And for metrics, you need to enable these things called exemplars.
Exemplars really confused me when I was looking up for this talk. Uh they basically are just a
special metric that gets produced every now and then. So it's not like every metric has it, but they
just have a trace context attached. So it has basically the same data as a normal metric, but it
just has a trace ID. So we can search for that later. Uh and it looks something like this. If you
were looking at the JSON, it's very similar except with some tracing information. And then finally,
uh, with, uh, uh, traces, if it's set properly, we'll be able to see we're referencing Loki and
Graphfana. And if we wanted to just before we finish up, if I was to taking a look at viewing an
error, imagine I've gone out for lunch and I've come back and everything's on fire. I quite like
community. I appreciate it's probably not the best meme to use, but here we are. And we see an
increase in 401 errors. Maybe I go to our graphana dashboard. Uh we've got exemplars which we just
spoke about. Again, notice how it's not every metric. It's kind of a special metric. I see a
specific exemplar. I click that exemplar and it goes and takes me to tempo for tracing. So, we kind
of see our trace. We get a bit more information. We see what's happened. We see how long it took. We
see the user 401 still don't quite have enough context. So, we go take a look at logs. Oh, okay.
Failed to get state cookie. The user didn't have a cookie that we expected them to. Makes a lot of
sense. And that might be like a flow that you use to kind of debug and see what's going on. And
hopefully you can see the correlation uh in that kind of looks good to me stack can be quite useful.
Of course, you can use whatever whatever you want to do. And now our pizza shop is up and running.
Uh and it's fully observable. Thank you very much. There's a link to these slides uh and the example
service at the bottom. Uh thank you for listening. I appreciate that was a ton of information. So
don't worry if you haven't if some of it went over your head. Uh, and yeah, thanks to everyone who
helped review this talk and provide feedback. >> We're doing questions. >> Yeah. Yeah, I see. I've
seen. >> Okay. Does anyone have questions? >> Yep. Thank you very much. That was amazing. um how
much of your code ends up being non-code but just hotel in the end >> so in uh like at work what I
generally would do or what we've done is uh we've abstracted a lot of it out to libraries so you
kind of have one library that every microser imports right uh so a lot of that just gets moved out
uh and then if you need specific stuff then then you would add it so not a lot if you're like me and
like banter bus for example is just a single service then yeah a decent amount of that percentage is
like maybe like 10% of the code uh does end up being kind of observability related but it's kind of
like if you're using that if you have a library it's like most things right uh you you kind of get
those economies of scale and uh you kind of just have to write it once and it does it for you um if
it's just for a one-off service then yeah it can start to it can start to add up but uh you you know
with metrics you'd have to do that anyways whether you're using OTLP metrics the logging is just a
little bit more you'd have to add those logs anyways so it's probably only the tracing bit really
that that adds a bit more. Uh but you you would again need to start those traces yourself. So even
if you weren't using Otle and the uh looks good to me stack, you would still probably need some I
don't know if that was exactly your question, but hopefully that answered it. >> So uh can you uh
use Jerger or Prometheus one of those for Otel because I have seen that sometimes Joerger is being
used for traces and Prometheus for monitoring. Yeah. So sorry if I wasn't clear. Yeah. Prometheus is
a metrics basically uh uh back end right. So what you can do for example when I was talking about
the auto collector it was some of those specific observability signals can be converted. So metrics
can be converted into Prometheus format. Traces can be converted to Jerger Zipkin data dog whatever
uh other format you may need. Um though again a lot of providers now support the OTLP format for all
of these. Uh so you can just keep them in the OTLP format. Yeah. No, absolutely. Like Jerger is is a
tracing provider as far as I'm aware for visualizing your traces. You wouldn't uh I don't think
you'd be sending metrics there. As far as I'm aware anyways, um someone can correct me if I'm wrong.
>> Thank you. Any more? Yeah. >> Uh thank you for the talk. It was really great. Um do you ever
think you can have too many metrics logs and how do you advise preventing too much noise? >> Yeah, I
think that's a really good question. I did actually delete some slides uh uh just last night where I
was talking about lessons learned. Over logging, I would always push for over logging than under
logging. Uh but it basically will just come down to when you're in an incident probably looking at
that log and being like that's useless. I think unfortunately at least in my experience that's
that's what it bottles down to or when you're trying to debug an issue and you're like you know what
that log is useless. In terms of metrics, yeah, metrics can be one of those things. is it can be it
can be really hard to kind of work out. Uh and I think unfortunately some of my learnings have just
been from you're an incident you're in an incident you're like oh that that information would be
really useful or looking back and saying we should have a metric tracking that um yeah trying to be
looking forwards is I think a lot of it is just learning from experience. Uh at least for me I don't
know if there's a there's there's other methods people use but yeah >> thank you. Okay, question in
the book. >> Uh there's also some uh links at the end you can go and have a look. Um Better Stack do
some really good videos and some really good blogs. So uh have a >> Hi, thank you. That was a great
talk. Really really appreciated it. Um got a question on trace IDs. I've seen the term correlation
ID used and it's not very clear to me whether they mean exactly the same thing or if there is a
difference. How do you see it? >> So I think apologies again if that wasn't clear. Correlation ID is
basically kind of existed before traces. So it was a way to like correlate like kind of the life
cycle of something together. Basically I wouldn't use a correlation ID. I would just use a trace ID
now to to do that to do that all for you. Uh like you just have a trace ID which is now tracking the
life cycle of an action or a request. uh and just a filter and trace ID to view everything related
to that kind of event or whatever whatever you may you may uh call it. But yeah, a correlation ids I
think just existed generally speaking before tracing became popular. It was just a way before you
could even look at traces as a way to kind of correlate logs that are related together. >> Right. >>
That makes sense. >> Yeah. Okay. Thank you. >> Thank you. Any more questions? >> Yeah. uh thanks for
the talk. I have a question about the trace ID. So uh what if you don't have a micro service
architecture but so the way I understood it is you create a a trace ID when the user logs in and
that same trace ID goes around in the HTTP headers, right? And then you track the entire thing end
to end, right? >> So not quite. So you could do it uh that's probably more you have like a user ID
and you'd attach it to your traces. >> A trace ID is basically almost a trace is more of a user
action. So when they press the order button, you could do it from the front end, you could do it
from the back end. It depends like if you're using Sentry, you could also like that's another
popular tool. Uh if there's a trace ID by the time the request uh reaches the back end, it'll carry
on that trace. And obviously if all of the spans are going to the same place like Sentry for
example, you could visualize it there. But essentially every user action they're doing will generate
a new trace. And if you want to correlate it back to the user, you would attach the user ID where
where you can. Does that answer your question? >> So like we pass the trace ID around when the
microservices are talking, right? It's not like when the user logs in and they add something to
cart, it's reusing the same trace ID. That's not how >> generally speaking, no. Because then what
would happen is when you visualize that trace, you would just get everything. So it's kind of just
like and again there's good reasons to break these rules but generally speaking about an action a
user does user adds an item to a cart that's an all that touched what are the pieces of
infrastructure what happens for that one single action then they add a second uh item to the cart
then they go to the order those will be like three separate traces with three separate trace IDs
generally speaking >> right makes sense thank you >> sorry was that potentially. Yeah, potentially.
Uh, >> hi. >> Sorry. >> Sorry. If you could just repeat that. >> I just said I just said in the case
of a of a sequence of actions from my perspective like uh add invoke. I don't remember what the
other ones were out of the three, but what I was saying maybe you can use span links which I think
is something that you mentioned that is to uh actually I'm not sure how it would work. Maybe the the
the root span in each of the three traces, they could be linked to one another. >> Uh or maybe uh
that's just an idea off the top of my head if it if it's useful in some way. That's that's just it.
>> I I think generally speaking, I'm not an expert in in in in this, but generally speaking, you
would link them probably via user ID. And if you want to send that round, that's where that baggage
propagator, you can go and kind of look that up, becomes quite useful. I think generally speaking,
my understanding is you want to keep traces kind of short as in they shouldn't be running for hours
kind of sort of thing. Uh but yeah, span links potentially uh I'm sure uh there might again might be
good reasons. I haven't >> actually I think your direction might be better as I understand maybe
some ID not sure user ID because it can be um maybe like sort of a a card ID or a transaction. Yeah.
Okay. >> Yeah. again you can set that past that round. It's all business logic. I think uh someone
here had a question. >> Yes. >> Uh I suppose on that note um is there anything good for capturing
say a journey like you know a user having conversation with an LLM and you're essentially trying to
trace you know how long it takes between responses. Um, so sort of like doing that sort of trace
level like a trace except it's a it's a conversation between a user and a and something. >> Yeah,
it's a good it's a it's a good question. Uh, it's not something I've really thought about to be
honest. Um, because basically you would again just be searching the only thing I can think is you'd
be searching on user ID and kind of viewing all those traces and it's not uh you maybe you want to
attach some form of metadata you could then search from. But yeah, catch me at the end if you have
any more questions. I'll be outside. >> Yes, thank you folks. We are out of time. So, uh 15 minute
break now, but say thanks to Hib again.
